## TPC-DS FOR POSTGRES

This repository contains the scripts and tools to generate TPC-DS data sets for PostgreSQL. The scripts are written in PL/pgSQL and can be run on any PostgreSQL database. The tools are written in Python and can be used to generate data sets for different sizes and formats.

The TPC-DS benchmark is a popular industry benchmark for evaluating database performance. It consists of a set of queries that simulate a business scenario and measure the performance of a database system under a variety of workloads. The data sets generated by these scripts are used to evaluate the performance of different database systems and compare their performance under different workloads.

The scripts and tools in this repository can be used to generate TPC-DS data sets for PostgreSQL. The data sets can be used to evaluate the performance of different database systems and compare their performance under different workloads. The scripts and tools can also be used to generate data sets for different sizes and formats.

### REQUIREMENTS

- PostgreSQL
    this is a extension of PostgreSQL, you need to install it first.
- gcc 13 or higher

### SETUP

make sure you have installed the postgres and the `pg_config` is in your PATH.

```
git clone https://github.com/asky/pg_tpcds.git
cd pg_tpcds
cmake -Bbuild
cmake --build build --target install
```

### USAGE

```sql

create extension pg_tpcds;

select tpcds_prepare(true);

select dsdgen(1, true);

select query from tpcds_queries(1); \gset

:query

explain (analyze, format json) :query;

select tpcds_destroy();
```

### LIMIATIONS

- The scripts and tools in this repository are not perfect and may contain errors.